Operation Softee is an effort to make it easy for people to get a
provisional license to operate a virtual asset service provider
license from the Hong Kong Securities Futures Commission under the
terms of the Schedule 3G of the Anti-Money Laundering and
Counter-Terrorist Financing (Amendment) Bill 2022.

https://www.legco.gov.hk/en/legco-business/council/bills.html?bill_key=10015&session=2022

The proposed bill will require licensing of regulated virtual asset
service provider (VASP) operations in Hong Kong.  These include *ONLY*
centralized exchanges in Hong Kong or companies actively marketing
services into Hong Kong.

The initial bill will not require licensing of P2P trading and will
not regulate trades between Hong Kong persons and platorms outside of
Hong Kong.  The Secretary of Financial Services and Treasury can add
to the list of regulated activities however, the HK government cannot
impose capital controls as a result of Basic Law Articles 112 and 115,
and any addition would be subsidiary legislation requiring a negative
vetting hearing by Legco.

Licensees are required to be Hong Kong companies.

Under Schedule 3G of the bill, anyone that conducts a VASP activity
before 30 March 2023 has the ability to apply for a license for the
next 9 months, and this license is good until the SFC comes up with
standards for licensees.

So the purpose of Operation Softee is to allow large numbers of people
to set up a virtual asset service provider and obtain a provisional
license from the HK SFC.

---- What is the purpose of operation Softee?

My concern is that you will end up with what the Indians call a
"license raj."  That a few large companies will get licenses and be
able to set up a cartel that will exclude any new companies.  In
particular, I am worried that the SFC will:

1) set up licensing rules that will make it impossible for small
startups to set up business and

2) expand the scope of licensing so include current unlicensed
activities.  Right now, P2P trading and decentralized exchanges are
not covered by the legislation, but the FSTB can expand licensing to
include those, and I want a community of small traders to make sure
that his does not happen.

-----  Will these licenses be worth anything?

I hope not.  The purpose of Operation Softee is to make sure that
there are so many licenses out there that a license is worth pretty
much nothing.


----  Where does the name Operation Softee come from?

The inspiration for Operation Softee is the Mobile Softee Ice Cream
truck.  In 1978, the Hong Kong government stopped issuing new Hawking
licenses but existing licensees were able to continue to operate.
Since then there is one ice cream truck company in Hong Kong.  A
similar situation where the HK government refuses to issue new
licenses exists with Dai Pai Dong.

In fact these examples outline the absolute absurdity of a licensing
system.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mobile_Softee

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dai_pai_dong

----- Are you against regulation?

I am for regulation but I am against licensing.  Part of the reason I
am so very much against licensing is that I do a lot of business with
India and Africa and I have seen the absolute devastation that
business licenses have done to an economy.

---- What do the Hong Kong regulators think about this?

I have a lot of admiration for HK regulators.  One thing that I like
about Hong Kong is that I have never sensed that the regulators are
bad people.  However, the typical Hong Kong regulator is very much
like the Disney character Flash in Zootopia.  They actually think that
a one year consultation period is fast and in their world it is.

Hong Kong regulators see themselves as referees and will consult with
the industry before making decisions.  They are completely incapable
of doing anything original or decisive.  This is why it is necessary
to create a community of people that will pressure the regulators not
to overregulate the industry.  My big worry is that you will form a
cartel of licensees that will capture the regulators and make them
make decisions that only favor large existing institutions.


