This file will be on how to tokenize a Hong Kong company.

The problem:

I give you the keys to my car.  This does not give you my car.  How do
I transfer ownership of a Hong Kong company with tokens?

Possible solutions:

Service provider agreement -

The solution that I am focusing on would include a set of agreements
by which when an NFT is transfered that there are agreements in place
to allow a corporate service provider in Hong Kong to file the
necessary papers with the company registry that would transfer
ownership of the shares.

The advantage of this solution is that the agreements would require
minimial legal expertise and regulation.  A smart contract would be
set up to make sure that the right things happen, and in particular
that stamp duty is paid when there is a share transfer.

Trust agreement

Another idea would be to create a trust agreement by which the
beneficiaries are token holders.  The big issue with this is that
trust agreements are very, very difficult to get right.

Issues:

How does it work now?

For private companies it doesn't.  For public companies, typically the
shares are held by a broker who serves as custodian and who records
the actual owner of the shares.  When a share is traded on an
exchange, the brokers then update their records as far as the owners
of the shares.  The system is held in place by a lot of agreements
between the client, the broker, the exchange, and the clearing and
settlement company.

One issue here is that the system is designed to intentionally make it
hard to trade shares in private companies.  The system is also
designed to make it impossible to hold bearer shares or to have
completely anonymous shares in companies.  Also transfers of shares in
Hong kong are subject to stamp tax.

